# Convolutional-autoencoder
A Convolutional autoencoder approach for boosting the specificity of retinal blood vessels segmentation.

In this project, we propose a fully convolutional autoencoder which is a special type of Convolutional Neural Networks for the vessel segmentation task. Automated retina vessel segmentation of the human eye plays an important role nowadays because it can help ophthalmologists identify many diseases like diabetes, stroke, arteriosclerosis, cardiovascular and other human illnesses. The proposed model consists of eight bigger layers where each one is made up by a combination of convolutional2D layers, MaxPooling layers, BatchNormalization layers and more. A number of preprocessing steps were used in order to increase the size of the input dataset . Our model has been trained and evaluated on DRIVE and STARE datasets with 35 minutes of training time. The evaluation metrics were very competitive compared to other proposed methods. In particular, the proposed autoencoder has AUC_ROC=0.9749 and ACCURACY=0.9573 on DRIVE dataset and AUC_ROC=0.9757, ACCURACY=0.9692 on STARE dataset. Our model was very efficient on the specificity metric which equals to 0.9857 and 0.987 on each dataset respectively and it’s the highest among the compared past proposed methods. The above statement can be noticed in the final blood vessel segmentation images produced by the convolutional autoencoder since they are more accurate, sharp and noiseless compared to the result images of other proposed methods.
